surprising thing about it is because I
come from the coast I don't think
anything about it but when judgment fee
came to do one of these celebrity
recitals that marked the opening of the
reopening of the order he got up to the
organ gallery and was about two feet
away from the organ bench when his first
reaction was oh my goodness and they
hadn't even seen the keyboards all the
stops what he was looking at was the sea
view out of the window and I had not
really been aware of the fact that there
was a sea view out of the window when I
come up here I look out a window and say
oh the tide zone and that's it but for
somebody who comes from somewhere inland
like Josh McPhee organist it fiercely
army then a sea views really quite
remarkable to her out of the window but
it also means that that there's so much
light comes in that on a summer night
you can practice your until after 10
o'clock at night without any lights on
because of all the dear light that comes
in through the window the bank
you
many people North could be like to play
at services because of you so far away
from the minister
when
ready from there in the collection or
something like that but I don't I don't
mind at all in fact it might be a
call the bank of the back of the back of
beyond because the aim of the bank of
the organ I was fun I'm sitting here as
far back as the financial box of New
York
they're in the back of the gallery the
gallery is an icon the transept and so
for everybody else in the congregation
that that is beyond so I'm at the bank
of the bank and back of beyond in here
the organ itself is run entirely by
compressed air so when you turn the tap
on the water Linden fills the mean
billows downstairs and then the
communication from the console which is
in here to the mechanism under the pipes
is all done by compressed air which was
very common in the about 1900 as far as
I know that along with two left mucking
in Scotland pooling organs this one here
and the other one in st. mary's
episcopal church and Oh Keith the organ
was built by Norman and beard in 1909
and the water engine was installed by
John Barr of Glasgow at the same time
the water engine the water engine is is
something that a plumber wouldn't
wouldn't know about so a former wouldn't
really be able to main and we've relied
on a succession of marina engineers
mostly retired who have been able to
take apart and understand what goes on
inside it and pretend the odd new water
and sewer and fix it but over the years
wind tear to the toe and a few years ago
the main bellows of the organ and the
water engine were both very desperately
in need of restoration so an appeal was
set up and lots of money was was
obtained from heritage Scotland and and
the land of course just elaborate fund
from pleasure to beguile and we got the
whole thing was to adopt bottom water
engine and Python
ah
you